# **INTRODUCTION TO AZURE**
Azure fundamentals is a series of six learning paths

| AZ-900 Domain Area | Weight |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Describe cloud concepts | 20-25% |
| Describe core Azure services | 15-20% |
| Describe core solutions and management tools on Azure | 10-15% |
| Describe general security and network security features | 10-15% |
| Describe identity, governance, privacy, and compliance features | 20-25% |
| Describe Microsoft cost management and Service Level Agreements | 10-15% |


**_How does Azure work?_**
   - it does virtualization by using something called a hypervisor
     - the hypervisor runs multiple VMs on each server
     - one server in each rack runs a "fabric controller"
     - and each fabric controller is connected to the orchestrator
       - the orchestrator manages everything to do with the servers, including responding to user requests
       - requests are made through the Azure API, which can be accessed many ways, including through the Azure Portal
       - when a fabric controller gets a request from the orchestrator, it creates the VM, does something on the VM, whatever the user requested

**_What is Azure Portal?_**
   - Azure Portal is the GUI version of the Azure API

**_Azure services categories_**
   - _compute_: VMs, deployed apps
     - e.g. Azure Virtual Machines, Azure Kubernetes Service
   - _networking_: VPN, load-balancing
     - e.g. Azure Virtual Network, Azure Load Balancer, Azure Application Gateway
   - _storage_: disk, file, blob and archival storage types
     - e.g. Azure Blob storage, Azure File storage
   - _mobile_: cross-platform/native devices, send notifications, etc.
   - _DBs_: various DB services
     - e.g. Azure Cosmos DB, Azure SQL Database
   - _web_: Azure Maps for geo services, publish APIs, etc.
     - e.g. Azure App Service-Quickly create powerful cloud web-based apps, Azure API Management-Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale.
   - _IoT_: connect tons of different IoT devices, analyze sensor data
   - _big data_: open source cluster services help do analysis
   - _AI_: use your data to forecast
   - _devops_: automating software delivery

**_what is Azure Marketplace?_**
   - on Azure Marketplace you can install services to run on Azure
   - examples: all sorts of DBs, OS images, blockchain workbenches and dev kits

**_Why is cloud computing typically cheaper to use? Why should I move to the cloud?_**
   - Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services over the internet by using a pay-as-you-go pricing model. You typically pay only for the cloud services you use. To put it another way, cloud computing is a way to rent compute power and storage from someone else's datacenter.
   - Teams deliver new features to their users at record speeds.

